# Why the Whitness of Archaeology Is a Problem

 "But a lack of diversity is especially problematic in archaeology because archaeologists help shape humanity’s understanding of the past. Who archaeologists are—our backgrounds, experiences, and mental models—can shape which questions we ask and how we interpret archaeological evidence." 
 
 This line is extremely important to the issue at hand and I though it should be my quote for this article. This is something that I believe I touched on early in this course, but I am happy to discuss it again because it is absolutly true. Histroy is writen by people, and people decide what's important based on their own personal experience. So if we have a specific groups of people in charge of how archaeology is presented to the rest of the world, we will experience a very tailored view of what happened in the past, which is exactly what White is saying in these lines. This can also be connected back to last week's "What Gets Counted Counts" where a similar issue on selective data is discussed. Both texts show the valuable need for diversity in all fields of study to insure that there is an inclusive environment, and so that we can gather as much data as possible and understand why all of it matters, not just the parts that resonate with us. 
 
 With all this said, when I did this weeks activity on Topic Models, I made connections to the two topic that stood out to me based on my own personal knowledge and experince, and yet I still had to go and research what was happening durin ghtose two timeframes, because I was fully aware that I am no expert in this field, nor was I even alive to experince these things firsthand. So I believe that this is something that needs to be done more. Include more people, do more research, talk to someone that knows about the thing that you are studying, get several perspectives. It will obviously take time to change the system, but small steps in the right direction will help remove the issue and create a more open and mixed envirnoment for people to learn from.
